# QISKit.js algorithms

:atom_symbol: Quantum Information Software Kit Quantum Information algorithms for humans.

Please visit the [main repository](https://github.com/QISKit/qiskit-sdk-js) of the project to know about the rest of the tools.

## Install

:coffee: Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/download) v8 and then:

```sh
npm i @qiskit/algos
```

## Use

:pencil: As you can see in the next section, we have to use it like in the rest of independent modules. The only difference is we need to pass the engine as any other option.

```js
const algos = require('@qiskit/algos');

// With the default engine and length.
algos.random().then(rand => console.log(`Random number(default): ${rand}`));

algos
  .random({
    engine: 'anu',
    length: 8,
  })
  .then(rand => console.log(`Random number: ${rand}`));
```

## API

:eyes: Full specification. Here are reflected the common options among the different engines, but some of them can receive (even need) extra ones, ie: an API key. Please check the [proper package](packages).

### `version`

The actual version of the library.

* `version` (string) - Version number.

### `async random(opts) -> rand | jobId`

Generate a true random number among 0 and 1.

* `opts` (object) - Optional parameters:
  * `engine` (string) - Where to run the operation. Please visit the [packages](https://github.ibm.com/jesusper/qiskit-sdk-js-next/tree/master/packages) to see the supported ones. The number of digits depends on the selected engine. (default: "js")
  * `length` (number) - Number of random hex characters to ask for to the engine. As you can see in the doc referenced before each engine has different limit, they will throw in it's overpassed. (default: 16)
  * `format` (string) - To ask for the result in a different format, supported ("hex").
  * `token` (string) - Some engines need an access token (visit each specific doc).
* `rand` (number) - Generated random number in the desired format if the operation doesn't involves a background job.
* `jobId` (string) - Identifier for the generated background job (see next method).

### `async result(jobId, opts) -> result`

Get the result of a background job generated by an algorithm method.

* `jobId` (string) - Job identifier got as initial response.
* `opts`(object) - Optional parameters:
  * `token`
* `result` (?) - Depending on the used agorithm:
  * "random": (object) - With nex fields:
    * `status` (string) - To know if the job has finished correctly. Supported: "running", "completed", TODO.
    * `data` (number) - Generated random number. Only present if "status" is "completed".

### `async factor(number, opts) -> prime`

Integer factorization in prime numbers using [Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm). **Only supported in the local simulator for now**. Should be run multiple times until get all primes and if the result is invalid.

* `number` (number/string) - Number to factorize, can also be an string (hexadecimal).
* `opts`
  * `engine`
  * `token`
* `prime` (number) - Prime factor of the passed one.

### TODO

* More Shor implementations.
* More engines: [Rigetti](https://rigetti.com)
* More algorithms, a point to start in [jsqubits examples](https://github.com/davidbkemp/jsqubits/tree/master/examples/algorithms).
* Benchmarking.
